Add guide for migrating from Elasticsearch 7.10 to OpenSearch 1.x (latest) (#2564)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _install-and-configure/upgrade-opensearch/rolling-upgrade.md

---
layout: default
title: Rolling Upgrade
parent: Upgrading OpenSearch
nav_order: 10
---

# Rolling Upgrade

> Rolling upgrades, sometimes referred to as "node replacement upgrades," can be performed on running clusters with virtually no downtime. Nodes are individually stopped and upgraded in place. Alternatively, nodes can be stopped and replaced, one at a time, by hosts running the new version. During this process you can continue to index and query data in your cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A rolling upgrade, sometimes referred to as a "node replacement upgrade," can be performed on a running cluster with virtually no downtime. Nodes are individually stopped and upgraded in place. Alternatively, nodes can be stopped and replaced, one at a time, by hosts running the new version. During this process you can continue to index and query data in your cluster.
```

> The sample outputs and API responses included in this document were generated in a development environment using Docker containers. Validation was performed by upgrading an Elasticsearch 7.10.2 cluster to OpenSearch 1.3.7; however, this process can be applied to any **N→N+1** version upgrade of OpenSearch on any platform. Certain commands, such as listing running containers in Docker, are included as an aid to the reader but the specific commands used on your host(s) will be different depending on your distribution and host operating system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sample outputs and API responses included in this document were generated in a development environment using Docker containers. Validation was performed by upgrading an Elasticsearch 7.10.2 cluster to OpenSearch 1.3.7; however, this process can be applied to any **N→N+1** version upgrade of OpenSearch on any platform. Certain commands, such as listing running containers in Docker, are included as an aid to the reader, but the specific commands used on your host(s) will be different depending on your distribution and host operating system.
```

> This guide assumes that you are comfortable working from the Linux command line interface (CLI). You should understand how to input commands, navigate between directories, and edit text files. For help with [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) or [Docker Compose](https://github.com/docker/compose), refer to the official documentation on their websites.

Reviewer: Do we mean "refer to the official documentation on the Docker website"? Also, should we refer the reader to https://docs.docker.com/compose/ instead of linking them to GitHub?

Author: Good catch but no this was deliberate. Docker Compose is included in Docker Desktop, but not with other distributions of Docker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide assumes that you are comfortable working from the Linux command line interface (CLI). You should understand how to input commands, navigate between directories, and edit text files. For help with [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) or [Docker Compose](https://github.com/docker/compose), refer to their official documentation.
```

{:.note}

## Preparing to upgrade

> Review [Upgrading OpenSearch]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/upgrade-opensearch/index/) for recommendations about backing up your configuration files and creating a snapshot of the cluster state and indexes before you make any changes to your OpenSearch cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Review [Upgrading OpenSearch]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/upgrade-opensearch/index/) for recommendations on backing up your configuration files and creating a snapshot of the cluster state and indexes before you make any changes to your OpenSearch cluster.
```

**Important:** OpenSearch nodes cannot be downgraded. If you need to revert the upgrade, then you will need to perform a fresh installation of OpenSearch and restore the cluster from a snapshot. Take a snapshot and store it in a remote repository before beginning the upgrade procedure.
{: .important}

> ## Upgrade steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Upgrade procedure
```

1. Verify the health of your OpenSearch cluster before you begin. You should resolve any index or shard allocation issues prior to upgrading to ensure that your data is preserved. A status of **green** indicates that all primary and replica shards are allocated. See [Cluster health]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/cluster-api/cluster-health/) for more information.

>    ```bash

Reviewer: We need to introduce the code block in the text that precedes it, either by referring to it within a sentence or by including a brief introductory sentence ending in a colon.

   curl "http://localhost:9201/_cluster/health?pretty"
   ```

>    Sample output:

Reviewer: Please rewrite as a complete sentence and use "example" instead of "sample".

   ```json
   {
       "cluster_name":"opensearch-dev-cluster",
       "status":"green",
       "timed_out":false,
       "number_of_nodes":4,
       "number_of_data_nodes":4,
       "active_primary_shards":1,
       "active_shards":4,
       "relocating_shards":0,
       "initializing_shards":0,
       "unassigned_shards":0,
       "delayed_unassigned_shards":0,
       "number_of_pending_tasks":0,
       "number_of_in_flight_fetch":0,
       "task_max_waiting_in_queue_millis":0,
       "active_shards_percent_as_number":100.0
   }
   ```
1. Disable shard replication to prevent shard replicas from being created while nodes are being taken offline. This stops the movement of Lucene index segments on nodes in your cluster.

>    ```bash

Reviewer: Introduce the code in the text that precedes it.

   curl -X PUT "http://localhost:9201/_cluster/settings?pretty" -H 'Content-type: application/json' -d'{"persistent":{"cluster.routing.allocation.enable":"primaries"}}'
   ```

>    Sample output:

Reviewer: Rewrite as a complete sentence and use "example" instead of "sample".

   ```json
   {
     "acknowledged" : true,
     "persistent" : {
       "cluster" : {
         "routing" : {
           "allocation" : {
             "enable" : "primaries"
           }
         }
       }
     },
     "transient" : { }
   }
   ```

> 1. Perform a flush operation on the cluster to commit transaction log entries to the Lucene index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Perform a flush operation on the cluster to commit transaction log entries to the Lucene index:
```

   ```bash
   curl -X POST "http://localhost:9201/_flush?pretty"
   ```

>    Sample output:

Reviewer: Rewrite as a complete sentence and use "example" instead of "sample".

   ```json
   {
     "_shards" : {
       "total" : 4,
       "successful" : 4,
       "failed" : 0
     }
   }
   ```

> 1. Review your cluster and identify the first node to upgrade. Eligible cluster manager nodes should be upgraded last because OpenSearch nodes can join a cluster with manager nodes running an older version, but they cannot join a cluster with all manager nodes running a newer version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Review your cluster and identify the first node to be upgraded. Eligible cluster manager nodes should be upgraded last because OpenSearch nodes can join a cluster with manager nodes running an older version, but they cannot join a cluster with all manager nodes running a newer version.
```

> 1. Query the `_cat/nodes` endpoint to verify which node was promoted to cluster manager. Note that OpenSearch 1.x versions use the term "master," which has been deprecated and replaced by "cluster_manager" in OpenSearch 2.x and later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Query the `_cat/nodes` endpoint to identify which node was promoted to cluster manager. Note that OpenSearch 1.x versions use the term "master," which has been deprecated and replaced by "cluster_manager" in OpenSearch 2.x and later.
```

>    ```bash

Reviewer: Introduce the code in the text that precedes it.

   curl -s "http://localhost:9201/_cat/nodes?v&h=name,version,node.role,master" | column -t
   ```

>    Sample output:

Reviewer: Rewrite as a complete sentence and use "example" instead of "sample".

   ```bash
   name        version  node.role  master
   os-node-01  7.10.2   dimr       -
   os-node-04  7.10.2   dimr       -
   os-node-03  7.10.2   dimr       -
   os-node-02  7.10.2   dimr       *
   ```

> 1. Stop the node you are upgrading. Do not delete the volume associated with the container when you delete the container. The new OpenSearch container will use the existing volume. **Deleting the volume will result in data loss.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Stop the node you are upgrading. Do not delete the volume associated with the container when you delete the container. The new OpenSearch container will use the existing volume. **Deleting the volume will result in data loss**.
```

> 1. Confirm that the associated node has been dismissed from the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Confirm that the associated node has been dismissed from the cluster:
```

   ```bash
   curl -s "http://localhost:9202/_cat/nodes?v&h=name,version,node.role,master" | column -t
   ```

>    Sample output:

Reviewer: Rewrite as a complete sentence and use "example" instead of "sample".

   ```bash
   name        version  node.role  master
   os-node-02  7.10.2   dimr       *
   os-node-04  7.10.2   dimr       -
   os-node-03  7.10.2   dimr       -
   ```
   `os-node-01` is no longer listed because the container has been stopped and deleted.

> 1. Deploy a new container running the desired version of OpenSearch, mapped to the same volume as the container you deleted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Deploy a new container running the desired version of OpenSearch and mapped to the same volume as the container you deleted.
```

> 1. Query the `_cat/nodes` endpoint after OpenSearch is running on the new node to confirm that it has joined the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Query the `_cat/nodes` endpoint after OpenSearch is running on the new node to confirm that it has joined the cluster:
```

   ```bash
   curl -s "http://localhost:9201/_cat/nodes?v&h=name,version,node.role,master" | column -t
   ```

>    Sample output:

Reviewer: Rewrite as a complete sentence and use "example" instead of "sample".

   ```bash
   name        version  node.role  master
   os-node-02  7.10.2   dimr       *
   os-node-04  7.10.2   dimr       -
   os-node-01  7.10.2   dimr       -
   os-node-03  7.10.2   dimr       -
   ```

>    In the sample output, the new OpenSearch node reports a running version of `7.10.2` to the cluster. This is the result of `compatibility.override_main_response_version`, which is used when connecting to a cluster with legacy clients that check for a version. You can manually confirm the version of the node by calling the `/_nodes` API endpoint, as in the following command. Replace `<nodeName>` with the name of your node. See [Nodes API]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/nodes-apis/index/) to learn more.

Reviewer: This is a good example of introducing the code within a sentence.

   ```
   curl -s -X GET 'localhost:9201/_nodes/<nodeName>?pretty=true' | jq -r '.nodes | .[] | "\(.name) v\(.version)"'
   ```

>    Sample output:

Reviewer: Rewrite as a complete sentence and use "example" instead of "sample".

   ```
   $ curl -s -X GET 'localhost:9201/_nodes/os-node-01?pretty=true' | jq -r '.nodes | .[] | "\(.name) v\(.version)"'
   os-node-01 v1.3.7
   ```

> 1. Repeat steps 5 through 9 for each node in your cluster. Remember to upgrade an eligible cluster manager node last. After replacing the last node, query the `_cat/nodes` endpoint to confirm that all nodes have joined the cluster. The cluster is now bootstrapped to the new version of OpenSearch.

Reviewer: Introduce the code in the text that precedes it.

   ```bash
   curl -s "http://localhost:9201/_cat/nodes?v&h=name,version,node.role,master" | column -t
   ```

>    Sample output:

Reviewer: Rewrite as a complete sentence and use "example" instead of "sample".

   ```bash
   name        version  node.role  master
   os-node-04  1.3.7    dimr       -
   os-node-02  1.3.7    dimr       *
   os-node-01  1.3.7    dimr       -
   os-node-03  1.3.7    dimr       -
   ```

> 1. Reenable shard replication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Reenable shard replication:
```

   ```bash
   curl -X PUT "http://localhost:9201/_cluster/settings?pretty" -H 'Content-type: application/json' -d'{"persistent":{"cluster.routing.allocation.enable":"all"}}'
   ```

>    Sample output:

Reviewer: Rewrite as a complete sentence and use "example" instead of "sample".

Author: Pinged for feedback. Idea: `The response should look like the following example:`

Author: Settled on a great suggestion from Nathan: `The response should look similar to the following example:`

   ```json
   {
     "acknowledged" : true,
     "persistent" : {
       "cluster" : {
         "routing" : {
           "allocation" : {
             "enable" : "all"
           }
         }
       }
     },
     "transient" : { }
   }
   ```

> 1. Confirm that the cluster is healthy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Confirm that the cluster is healthy:
```

   ```bash
   curl "http://localhost:9201/_cluster/health?pretty"
   ```

>    Sample output:

Reviewer: Rewrite as a complete sentence and use "example" instead of "sample".

   ```bash
   {
     "cluster_name" : "opensearch-dev-cluster",
     "status" : "green",
     "timed_out" : false,
     "number_of_nodes" : 4,
     "number_of_data_nodes" : 4,
     "discovered_master" : true,
     "active_primary_shards" : 1,
     "active_shards" : 4,
     "relocating_shards" : 0,
     "initializing_shards" : 0,
     "unassigned_shards" : 0,
     "delayed_unassigned_shards" : 0,
     "number_of_pending_tasks" : 0,
     "number_of_in_flight_fetch" : 0,
     "task_max_waiting_in_queue_millis" : 0,
     "active_shards_percent_as_number" : 100.0
   }
   ```

> 1. The upgrade is complete and you can begin enjoying the latest features and fixes!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The upgrade is now complete, and you can begin enjoying the latest features and fixes!
```

This guide assumes that you are comfortable working from the Linux command line interface (CLI). You should understand how to input commands, navigate between directories, and edit text files. For help with [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) or [Docker Compose](https://github.com/docker/compose), refer to the official documentation on their websites.
{:.note}

## Prepare to upgrade

Review [Upgrading OpenSearch]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/upgrade-opensearch/index/) for recommendations about backing up your configuration files and creating a snapshot of the cluster state and indexes before you make any changes to your OpenSearch cluster.

**Important:** OpenSearch nodes cannot be downgraded. If you need to revert the upgrade, then you will need to perform a fresh installation of OpenSearch and restore the cluster from a snapshot. Take a snapshot and store it in a remote repository before beginning the upgrade procedure.
{: .note}

## Upgrade steps

> 1. Verify the health of your OpenSearch cluster before you begin. You should resolve any index or shard allocation issues prior to upgrading to ensure that your data is preserved. A status of **green** indicates that all primary and replica shards are allocated. See [Cluster health]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/cluster-api/cluster-health/) for more information.

Author: I refer to the pages for relevant API endpoints so I don't have to include those kinds of details here.

   ```bash
   curl -s "http://localhost:9201/_cat/nodes?v&h=name,version,node.role,master" | column -t
   ```
   Sample output:
   ```bash
   name        version  node.role  master
   os-node-01  7.10.2   dimr       -
   os-node-04  7.10.2   dimr       -
   os-node-03  7.10.2   dimr       -
   os-node-02  7.10.2   dimr       *
   ```
1. Stop the node you are upgrading. Do not delete the volume associated with the container when you delete the container. The new OpenSearch container will use the existing volume. **Deleting the volume will result in data loss.**
1. Confirm that the associated node has been dismissed from the cluster.
   ```bash
   curl -s "http://localhost:9202/_cat/nodes?v&h=name,version,node.role,master" | column -t
   ```
   Sample output:
   ```bash
   name        version  node.role  master
   os-node-02  7.10.2   dimr       *
   os-node-04  7.10.2   dimr       -
   os-node-03  7.10.2   dimr       -
   ```
   `os-node-01` is no longer listed because the container has been stopped and deleted.

> 1. Deploy a new container running the desired version of OpenSearch, mapped to the same volume as the container you deleted. The command used in the dev environment is included below. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Deploy a new container running the desired version of OpenSearch, mapped to the same volume as the container you deleted. The following command shows what to include in the development environment: 
```

       -p 9201:9200 -p 9601:9600 \
       -e "discovery.seed_hosts=os-node-01,os-node-02,os-node-03,os-node-04" -e "DISABLE_SECURITY_PLUGIN=true" \
       -e "DISABLE_INSTALL_DEMO_CONFIG=true" -e "OPENSEARCH_JAVA_OPTS=-Xms512m -Xmx512m" \
       -e "cluster.name=opensearch-dev-cluster" -e "node.name=os-node-01" \
       -e "cluster.initial_master_nodes=os-node-01,os-node-02,os-node-03,os-node-04" \
       -e "bootstrap.memory_lock=true" -e "path.repo=/mnt/snapshots" \
       --ulimit nofile=65536:65536 --ulimit memlock=-1:-1 \
       -v data-01:/usr/share/opensearch/data \
       -v repo-01:/mnt/snapshots \
       --network opensearch-dev-net \
       --name os-node-01 \
       opensearchproject/opensearch:1.3.7
   ```
1. Query the `_cat/nodes` endpoint after OpenSearch is running on the new node to confirm that it has joined the cluster.
   ```bash
   curl -s "http://localhost:9201/_cat/nodes?v&h=name,version,node.role,master" | column -t
   ```
   Sample output:
   ```bash
   name        version  node.role  master
   os-node-02  7.10.2   dimr       *
   os-node-04  7.10.2   dimr       -
   os-node-01  7.10.2   dimr       -
   os-node-03  7.10.2   dimr       -
   ```

>    In the sample output, the new OpenSearch node reports a running version of `7.10.2` to the cluster. This is the result of `compatibility.override_main_response_version`, which is used when connecting to a cluster with legacy clients that check for a version. You can manually confirm the version of the node by calling the `/_nodes` API endpoint, like the following command. Replace `<nodeName>` with the name of your node. See [Nodes API]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/nodes-apis/index/) to learn more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   In the sample output, the new OpenSearch node reports the version `7.10.2` is running in the cluster. This is the result of `compatibility.override_main_response_version`, which is used when connecting to a cluster with legacy clients that check for a version. You can manually confirm the version of the node by calling the `/_nodes` API endpoint, like the following command. Replace `<nodeName>` with the name of your node. See [Nodes API]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/nodes-apis/index/) to learn more.
```

   ```
   curl -s -X GET 'localhost:9201/_nodes/<nodeName>?pretty=true' | jq -r '.nodes | .[] | "\(.name) v\(.version)"'
   ```
   Sample output:
   ```
   $ curl -s -X GET 'localhost:9201/_nodes/os-node-01?pretty=true' | jq -r '.nodes | .[] | "\(.name) v\(.version)"'
   os-node-01 v1.3.7
   ```
1. Repeat steps 5 through 9 for each node in your cluster. Remember to upgrade an eligible cluster manager node last. When you are finished replacing the last node, query `_cat/nodes` to confirm that all nodes have joined the cluster. The cluster is now bootstrapped to the new version of OpenSearch.
   ```bash
   curl -s "http://localhost:9201/_cat/nodes?v&h=name,version,node.role,master" | column -t
   ```
   Sample output:
   ```bash
   name        version  node.role  master
   os-node-04  1.3.7    dimr       -
   os-node-02  1.3.7    dimr       *
   os-node-01  1.3.7    dimr       -
   os-node-03  1.3.7    dimr       -
   ```

>    There are no longer any eligible cluster manager nodes running the old version, so a cluster manager running the new version was elected. The cluster has now been bootstrapped to the new version.

Reviewer 3: Can this description of the consequences of replacing the last node go along with "The cluster is now bootstrapped to the new version of OpenSearch."? Maybe all of it can go together after the sample output. They all describe the condition of the cluster after running the command to confirm all nodes have joined the cluster. Right? In other words, all of the results are these ...

Author: Good catch

           }
         }
       }
     },
     "transient" : { }
   }
   ```
1. Confirm that the cluster is healthy.
   ```bash
   curl "http://localhost:9201/_cluster/health?pretty"
   ```
   Sample output:
   ```bash
   {
     "cluster_name" : "opensearch-dev-cluster",
     "status" : "green",
     "timed_out" : false,
     "number_of_nodes" : 4,
     "number_of_data_nodes" : 4,
     "discovered_master" : true,
     "active_primary_shards" : 1,
     "active_shards" : 4,
     "relocating_shards" : 0,
     "initializing_shards" : 0,
     "unassigned_shards" : 0,
     "delayed_unassigned_shards" : 0,
     "number_of_pending_tasks" : 0,
     "number_of_in_flight_fetch" : 0,
     "task_max_waiting_in_queue_millis" : 0,
     "active_shards_percent_as_number" : 100.0
   }
   ```
1. The upgrade is complete and you can begin enjoying the latest features and fixes!

### Related articles

- [OpenSearch configuration]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/configuration/)
- [Performance analyzer]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/monitoring-plugins/pa/index/)
- [Install and configure OpenSearch Dashboards]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/install-dashboards/index/)

> - [About the security plugin]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-plugin/index/)

Reviewer 3: [About Security in OpenSearch]
({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/index/)

{:.note}

### About this guide

The sample outputs and API responses included in this document were generated in a development environment. Testing and validation was performed by upgrading an Elasticsearch 7.10.2 cluster of 4 nodes to OpenSearch 1.3.7. However, this process can be applied to any **N → N+1** version upgrade of OpenSearch.

### Prepare to upgrade

Review [Upgrading OpenSearch]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/upgrade-opensearch/index/) for recommendations about backing up your configuration files and creating a snapshot of the cluster state and indexes before you make any changes to your OpenSearch cluster.

OpenSearch nodes cannot be downgraded. If you need to revert the upgrade, then you will need to perform a fresh installation of OpenSearch and restore the cluster from a snapshot. Take a snapshot and store it in a remote repository before beginning the upgrade procedure.
{: .note}

> ### Rolling upgrade

Author: I agree with you. Right now I'm blocked on testing tarball deployments unless I can figure out the `discovery-ec2` plugin (which I might have luck with, looking at it with fresh eyes) or I'll just see if we have access to VSphere somewhere so I can spin up some VMs and not have to worry about the VPC and IAM complications.

       "unassigned_shards":0,
       "delayed_unassigned_shards":0,
       "number_of_pending_tasks":0,
       "number_of_in_flight_fetch":0,
       "task_max_waiting_in_queue_millis":0,
       "active_shards_percent_as_number":100.0
   }
   ```
1. Disable shard replication to prevent shard replicas from being created while nodes are being taken offline. This stops the movement of Lucene index segments on nodes in your cluster.
   ```bash
   curl -X PUT "http://localhost:9201/_cluster/settings?pretty" -H 'Content-type: application/json' -d'{"persistent":{"cluster.routing.allocation.enable":"primaries"}}'
   ```
   Sample output:
   ```json
   {
     "acknowledged" : true,
     "persistent" : {
       "cluster" : {
         "routing" : {
           "allocation" : {
             "enable" : "primaries"
           }
         }
       }
     },
     "transient" : { }
   }
   ```
1. Perform a flush operation on the cluster to commit transaction log entries to the Lucene index.
   ```bash
   curl -X POST "http://localhost:9201/_flush?pretty"
   ```
   Sample output:
   ```json
   {
     "_shards" : {
       "total" : 4,
       "successful" : 4,
       "failed" : 0
     }
   }
   ```

> 1. Review your cluster and identify the first node to upgrade. Eligible cluster manager nodes should be upgraded last because OpenSearch nodes can join a cluster with manager nodes running an older version, but they cannot join a cluster with all manager nodes running a newer version.

Reviewer 4: Haven't yet, but plan to do a test to confirm this soon

       -e "DISABLE_INSTALL_DEMO_CONFIG=true" -e "OPENSEARCH_JAVA_OPTS=-Xms512m -Xmx512m" \
       -e "cluster.name=opensearch-dev-cluster" -e "node.name=os-node-01" \
       -e "cluster.initial_master_nodes=os-node-01,os-node-02,os-node-03,os-node-04" \
       -e "bootstrap.memory_lock=true" -e "path.repo=/mnt/snapshots" \
       --ulimit nofile=65536:65536 --ulimit memlock=-1:-1 \
       -v data-01:/usr/share/opensearch/data \
       -v repo-01:/mnt/snapshots \
       --network opensearch-dev-net \
       --name os-node-01 \
       opensearchproject/opensearch:1.3.7
   ```
   Sample output:
   ```bash
   b6d06de7a016aa3bb76c133c55ba4e0e605f522c7a6a4ebd2aa6c6a6d3f49728
   ```
1. Query the `_cat/nodes` endpoint after OpenSearch is running on the new node to confirm that it has joined the cluster.
   ```bash
   curl -s "http://localhost:9201/_cat/nodes?v&h=name,version,node.role,master" | column -t
   ```
   Sample output:
   ```bash
   name        version  node.role  master
   os-node-02  7.10.2   dimr       *
   os-node-04  7.10.2   dimr       -
   os-node-01  7.10.2   dimr       -
   os-node-03  7.10.2   dimr       -
   ```

>    In the sample output, the new OpenSearch node reports a running version of `7.10.2` to the cluster for compatibility purposes. You can manually confirm the version by reviewing the output of the `/_nodes` API endpoint, like the following command. Replace `<nodeName>` with the name of your node. See [Nodes API]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/latest/api-reference/nodes-apis/index/) to learn more.

Reviewer 4: Good tip here, something I wasn't sure about when upgrading

   ```
   curl -s -X GET 'localhost:9201/_nodes/<nodeName>?pretty=true' | jq -r '.nodes | .[] | "\(.name) v\(.version)"'
   ```
   Sample output:
   ```
   $ curl -s -X GET 'localhost:9201/_nodes/os-node-01?pretty=true' | jq -r '.nodes | .[] | "\(.name) v\(.version)"'
   os-node-01 v1.3.7
   ```
1. Repeat steps 5 through 9 for each node in your cluster. Remember to upgrade an eligible cluster manager node last. When you are finished replacing the last node, query `_cat/nodes` to confirm that all nodes have joined the cluster. The cluster is now bootstrapped to the new version of OpenSearch.
   ```bash
   curl -s "http://localhost:9201/_cat/nodes?v&h=name,version,node.role,master" | column -t
   ```
   Sample output:
   ```bash

>    name        version  node.role  master

Reviewer 4: If we have a node that is not a master node and not included in our `cluster.initial_master_nodes=os-node-01,os-node-02,os-node-03,os-node-04` would it still be listed here?

Author: Pretty sure it would
